Hi everybody, welcome to the Data Science Hangout. I'm sure we'll have quite a few people
joining in in the next few minutes here too. But if you're joining for the first time,
it's great to meet you. I'm Rachel. If this is your first Hangout, this is an open space
for the whole data science community to connect and chat about data science leadership, questions
you're facing, and what's really going on in the world of data science. These sessions
are recorded and shared to YouTube as well as the rstudio Data Science Hangout site.
So you can always go back and rewatch to find helpful resources or share with others. I'll
say this up front because I always forget this. We also have a LinkedIn group for the
Hangout too. So if you ever want to continue a certain discussion or see a brief summary
of a topic brought up each week, you can join that group. I'll share it in just a second
so I don't pause here. But we always want to create spaces where everybody can participate
and we can hear from everyone. So there's three ways you can ask questions today. You
can jump in by raising your hand on Zoom and I'll just call on you. You can put questions
in the Zoom chat and feel free to just put a little star next to it if you want me to
read it out loud instead. Or I can call on you to introduce yourself and ask. But we
also have a Slido link that Hannah will share in just a second here in the chat where you
can ask questions anonymously too. So this is all for you and all the questions are audience
led. So just like to reiterate, we love to hear from everyone, no matter your level of
experience or area of work. But today, I'm so happy to be joined by my co-host, Travis
Gerk. Travis is Director of Data Science at the Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Consortium.
That's a hard one to say. But Travis, I'd love to turn it over to you and have you just
introduce yourself and maybe share a little bit about the work that you do.
Yeah, sure. So hi, I'm Travis. Thanks so much for having me. This is really great. I've
been on a couple of Hangouts and they're always fun. So right, as Rachel said, I'm Director
of Data Science at the Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Consortium, which yes, it is a
mouthful. An acronym might be even more tricky, PCCTC. Try saying that five times fast.
But whatever the case of you, we're sort of a we're a CRO, so a clinical research
organization, meaning that we facilitate the work of clinical trials from end to end for
often pharmaceutical sponsors or sometimes so-called independent investigator initiated
trials, which will be maybe physician scientists who've initiated a trial at their at their
site at their hospital. And we have a we're sort of a boutique CRO in the sense we mostly
do prostate cancer oncology work. So right now we're running about a quarter of all early
phase clinical trials in late stage prostate cancer in the US. And we have a few global
studies as well. So it's good. We do, as I said, we kind of collect all the data at the
sites. We help the sites launch the trial. And then once the data starts rolling in,
that's when the data science team takes over. They do a lot of counting, a lot of
tabling, big figures. We use R Markdown. Something that we're excited to do is move
the clinical trials reporting space more towards R, Python, other open source
technologies over traditionally a licensed dominated space, such as SAS and things like
that. Of course, we're not, we're not the only kind of thought leaders in the space.
There's a lot of great work from GSK, Roche and Taurus and others that we keep tabs on.
And we love to learn from you all as we go.
Thank you. And so I know a lot of people have commented in the chat already about your
amazing background and wanting to know, where are you right now?
I've seen the guesses you're coming, Glacier National Park. Like I have, I feel like I've
become Bigfoot these days. There was someone on Twitter recently said, did I just have a
Travis Gerke sighting? This, no, I'm not in Glacier anymore. We're now in Washington
State. I'm on a river called the Nisqually, which is just outside of Olympia, near
Seattle. Awesome. So I guess I'm going to transition. No, I was going to say, I feel
like that's a great transition into, I hinted that we would chat a little bit about very
remote work and would love to learn a little bit more about your travels and working
remotely. Yeah, this is something kind of wild that we did. So my wife and we have two
kids, they're seven and eight and a dog.
We used to live in Florida and then we were never fans of the heat.
And then for that and reasons, we just said, let's leave.
So so we sold our home and we bought an RV and a truck and sold most of our stuff.
And now we live full time in an RV.
And I just do data science from from wherever we are.
Lately, it's been on the Pacific Northwest, but it's great.
I'm happy to answer any odd questions you might have about that.
I 100 out of 10 recommend it if anyone has the urge to just get up and move.
It's very pandemic friendly.
We don't see many people often, although we want to go to the city.
We can. We went to Seattle yesterday.
It was fun. So yeah, it's one of the good things about data science.
It's pretty flexible. You can do from anywhere, really.
That's amazing. I see, Libby, you asked a question somewhere a bit earlier about Internet.
Do you want to jump in?
Yeah. Hey, Travis and I are talking about this on LinkedIn a little bit.
I was like, you're going to spill all your secrets about how you have Internet and all
these places, right, because I my husband and I both work remotely and we both feel
like the Internet is like a utility for us now, like a boundary to to working.
So I'd love to know more about like how you stay connected all over the place.
And if you have any trouble.
Yeah, no, I've I've shockingly actually not had any trouble yet.
I geeked out on this big time before we did this, because you're right.
Without Internet, can't do much in terms of work.
But even in the remotest places we've been, I think Big Bend in Texas, we were the furthest
from civilization.
I was still able to maintain Zoom meetings, much to my surprise.
Actually, I prepped for a little bit on a week like that where I'm pretty remote.
I make sure to set up a lot of kind of maybe it's a learning week or, you know, kind of
heads down work. It's actually kind of good.
It gives you a little bit of space from the usual grind of just Zoom to Zoom.
But even in that case, it wasn't necessary.
So today I'm using this hotspot.
So these hotspots, this one's the 5G Netgear.
I can always share details about these things.
But this one.
So I have redundant phone plans for this sort of thing.
This one today, I'm on AT&T.
This hotspot also runs a T-Mobile.
But I also have Verizon plans for it just depends.
It depends where we are, what kind of service is going to give us the best.
But I've actually never had a challenge streaming videos, Zoom, things like that.
Something else that's helpful if you get a hotspot, these little boosters.
This is like $20 on Amazon.
They can be tremendously helpful.
They kind of like funnel the signal into your hotspot a little bit better.
There is one. And if you want to really geek out on this, like I did, the best resources
website called RVMobileInternet.com and you can check that out.
These days, I think if I even had like a proper home, I might consider doing this instead
of proper like cable or whatever internet, because the price is pretty similar.
And often I have better signal much if I'm using it than my kind of at home
colleagues that I'm Zooming with.
So it works well.
It's fun. Did that answer your question?
I could really you can tell I can talk about that for days.
Yeah, no, it did.
Thank you so much. I really appreciate it.
I'm going to pass some of this along to my sister.
My sister lived in a van.
Her and her husband lived in a van for about 10 years.
And they've just recently settled down into a tiny home.
But they are still really far from everything.
So it's been a little bit of a struggle.
Very cool. I love Raha's comment in the chat that this is exactly the kind of
conversation I've been craving.
Aaron, I see you asked a question, too.
Do you want to jump in?
Hi, this is Aaron.
Um, I was just wondering, because I've tried to work in places where there's
lots of sunlight before, and I found it's really hard to, even if the sun
isn't shining directly on you, if there is any sun touching anything in the
background behind you, it's hard to keep the glare off the screen.
So I was wondering if you just had tips for us.
I wish I had a brilliant thing to suggest and maybe others will.
For today, I kind of just wandered around until I found a shady spot.
So I'm kind of like in the shade and I'm actually letting just
my MacBook Pro do all the work.
I'm even using the onboard camera.
I mean, I do have, I do have like a stream cam that sometimes I use,
but most times I find this is okay.
I'm sorry if that's a disappointing answer.
No, thank you.
I'm wishing I was wandering around outside, like looking for nice places
that I should just take the hangout outside next time.
I see, Mike, that you asked a question in the chat.
You want to jump in?
Hi, thanks.
Thanks for discussing this, Travis.
I hope you don't mind that we're talking about, you know, your, your work
lifestyle rather than data science or anything complicated.
It's a hangout.
That's what we're here for.
So I, I work remote from the most of my team.
They're predominantly US based and classic situation here in the, in the UK.
Today is a bank, a public holiday because of the Queen's Platinum Jubilee.
Last Monday was a US public holiday.
So, you know, my colleagues are hitting me up on my public holiday, but I
wasn't allowed to hit them up on their public holiday, but when you're out
and about, how do your colleagues kind of, how do you, how do you balance
up, you know, time at work versus, you know, time I can be available for
conversations and how do you have those conversations with colleagues to say,
look, you know, I'm going to be busy or traveling between here and here, you
know, so don't expect an answer in that time period.
Yeah, it's such a great question.
And it is always, I mean, it's something that one has to be very intentional
about and just communicate broadly.
I do work very odd hours, especially now that I'm on West coast.
Most of my colleagues are on East coast time.
So I do try mostly to wake up very early and stick to their schedule,
but a lot of times it doesn't work out.
And that's fine.
I'm kind of a night owl by nature anyway.
So I will fire off emails at what is going to be like 2am Eastern.
And what I do make sure to communicate is that, you know, if I'm, if I'm
sending an email at 2am, like it doesn't mean I expect anyone to see or respond
or do anything with that email at 2am.
Nor does it mean that I've been working from like 9am Eastern to 2am Eastern.
Like, it's just, you know, the, the async, I think, I mean, that's really
the future of most work environments for data science, I would suppose.
I think someone like Chris Hurd on Twitter probably has stronger words
than I do about that, but which, which I would recommend as a follow
for remote work hot takes, but yeah, I mean, it's just, it's, it's
really comes down to communication.
I let people know I'm going to be traveling and, you know, blocking
time on my calendar, things like that.
Cause some afternoons I do, we do need to move or make it, make
a drive or something like that.
And, you know, I just, I just set it as busy and then people know that
I'm, I'm not there and then just let them know.
Thanks.
Yeah.
I think, I think blocking calendars is the, the, the key, right.
Cause that says, you know, don't expect an answer in this three
period, three hour period or whatever.
Yep.
For sure.
I like that point though, about you might answer it too, but that doesn't
mean you're expecting somebody to answer you right away too.
It's when people answer back and you get into a conversation.
It's Katie from our team used to put something in her email signature.
Like I send emails at off times, but that doesn't mean I expect a response.
Oh, that's great.
I love that.
Oh, I think I just, Sam, I think you just actually share that in the chat too.
Yeah, that was, we use that tagline a lot of my last job.
In fact, our president had it on his email.
I'm working on a remote schedule.
I know I don't expect an answer back and I'm flexible.
Mike, to your comment, I had the same situation.
So when I lived in Bermuda, you had a choice.
You either got Bermuda holidays or you got a us holidays and every employee
made a choice and they are different.
And the key is, it was just like to let everybody, you know, you just had
to communicate to people, Hey, this is your holiday.
And, you know, this is my holiday and, you know, we'll work around it.
And, um, fortunately it's the odd balls where, where you run into trouble.
Like, like I would say like today, the jubilee is going on and we just had
Memorial day in the United States, but the summers tend to be okay.
And like in Bermuda, they had, um, cricket holiday on August 1st and
second, the entire island shut down for two days so that, so the North
could play the South in cricket.
Um, and you know, that was one of the things it was like an odd, odd
days, but it's the summer.
So it's, so it's not as bad, but it's just really about
communications and expectations.
You just got to set them and expect people to live by them.
Really?
I, um, I see Robert, you had a question in the chat.
You want to ask live?
Sure.
Yeah.
Um, on async work, like I guess being productive with others, especially
when conversations get complex, maybe there is no good tool other
than a meeting or a call like email versus Slack versus mirror.
Like, are there any async tools that you like to actually work through
something complicated and make decisions without the, without the meeting?
That's such a good, I'd love to learn from others on this one.
Myself.
Um, I will say what, what we do.
I mean, we try to lean into GitHub whenever we can, you know, I think
the process of writing down where you're stuck, um, and you know, like
here, here's my reprex or what I'm doing.
How do we solve it?
Like, that's good when working with non-technical, I mean, like,
you know, non-data scientists, um, you're right.
Sometimes you just gotta resort to the meeting and that's, and that's fine.
Um, it's, it can be a lot more efficient that way, but, um, the, the drawback
there is you don't end up documenting.
I think a lot of us have learned in the last couple of years with the remote
setups that, that really just the writing things down reduces those institutional
knowledge silos, um, where you can never pick up if someone leaves and go
somewhere else and you go, Oh my God, we don't know how to do this anymore.
Um, instead of the meetings whenever possible, writing things down is really
wise, but as far as tooling, I, another one I wish I had a good answer for like,
Oh, we use this consolidated approach with this thing, but now we're kind
of spattered all over the place.
We have some Slack, some teams, some GitHub emails.
Um, yeah, I don't know.
Cause I, you know, I, I was, um, interacting with someone on tour
recently about loom, uh, and that looks awesome to sort of share it.
So loom is a platform for sharing quick little videos, um, screen shares with
like, I think it has like a little headshot of you talking in it or something
like that, and it seems like a really great solution for asking and answering
technical questions and in a streamlined way, but I have not used it myself.
Curious if others have recommendations there.
Yeah.
And I see you said loom is great.
I love to hear what that is.
Yeah.
So I've used it before for async work, especially with project kickoffs, when
you can set context really easily with a short video, you can reduce meetings,
get everyone on the same page and then have everyone kind of digest all the
information before you meet for more technical work.
So I found that's really important whenever you're kicking off projects.
Um, also for updates that you maybe would have a weekly sync on.
Sometimes you can just do it in four minutes over a loom video.
And then if there are any follow-up questions, someone could
send you a loom video right back.
Oh, I love it.
Yeah.
Anyone else have other tools that have been useful?
I see a few being shared in the chat right now too.
Oh, Slack does the video messages.
I see.
Um, Maddie said, that's awesome.
I didn't know that.
Alexander, I see you asked the question.
Um, well, as we're sticking on this remote work topic right now, do
you want to, want to jump in?
Uh, hi.
Yeah.
Um, Travis, thanks for speaking with us today.
Um, I wanted to ask you about, um, your ability to work remotely.
So is this something that you've always done or is it something that
became possible because of the pandemic?
And I'm also wondering, you know, I hear, I always hear a lot about how
there's a lot of new roles that are opening that are remote, but I'm still
curious, is this like, are people hiring, um, with remote roles in mind
for data science, or is this still something that needs to be like negotiated?
Um, like pretty intensely in order to have, cause I know there's a lot of
talk now about return to work and, um, a lot of CEOs are saying people need to
come back, so I'm just curious, um, how this became possible for you and if
you have any insight into what it maybe looks like now in the market.
Yeah, sure.
Um, so for like a couple of things there, that awesome question.
I love it.
The return to work phrase is like usually a hot button, um, phrase
with huge remote proponents.
Um, so it implies sort of that we weren't working before, like
when we aren't in the office.
Um, I know that's not what you meant, but, um, but it's just sort of a
funny thing that, that it, that it struck me.
Um, but yeah, I think if it.
In, in the negotiation stage, which you mentioned, um, so if you're looking
at a role and, and it turns into a company or an org saying, well, we're
going to let you work remote, um, as if it's some sort of privilege, it could
be a red flag if, if remote really is your intention and your desired mode
of working, and if you work well that way, it's just the way you work.
I mean, I don't, I don't think it's, it's a, it's a privilege or not.
It's just, it's the way that you're productive.
And if, and if orgs don't see it that way, then, then maybe that's
a, that's kind of an early indicator.
Um, so it's an important conversation to have early on, you know, like when,
when we're interviewing new people for, for our team, we make sure to say
like our org is a hundred percent remote, um, and indeed for us, and even
for me, the a hundred percent remote, like going away remote only became
possible because of the pandemic.
Um, so kind of one of the few bright points of the pandemic, it allowed us to
say, we really can do this from anywhere at any time, um, but now that we've done
that and it's successful and there are of course, cost benefits to not having
brick and mortar, uh, all those things, it makes sense for us.
So we say like, you know, our intention is to stay a hundred percent remote
and that's what this role is.
And then there's no, there's no kind of like, we're gifting you this, this benefit.
Um, it is just the way it is.
Um, cause people are, I mean, a lot of studies I think lately are showing
that people even became more productive when, when they work remotely, which
makes a lot of sense to me.
I know I did too.
I don't waste two hours a day sitting in a car and, you know, putting on proper
pants or whatever the case may be.
Yeah.
I definitely, um, I'm sorry.
I definitely meant return to, uh, return to office, not return to work.
Yeah, yeah, no, no, no, no.
I didn't, I didn't mean to sound accused.
No, I know exactly what you meant.
I didn't, I didn't sense any like ill will there.
Um, but I definitely think you're right.
I think that this pandemic has definitely shown that there are some
things for data scientists that are just, I know I've personally found
easier to do at home than in the office.
Um, and I think this conversation we're having today is really bringing up
important points about maybe some of the challenges with, with remote work.
Um, I know we're talking about loom and how that can be really helpful.
I find another thing that still maybe I find more helpful in
the office is brainstorming.
And the main reason is because of whiteboarding it's, um, it's really hard
to whiteboard over zoom and like brainstorm those ideas.
Um, so thanks for having this conversation and for sharing, um, your insights.
Yeah, sure.
Yeah.
Thanks for the questions.
I see there's an anonymous question that came in a bit earlier, which
is shifting gears a little bit.
Um, but in simple terms, what is the difference between early phase
and late stage clinical trials?
What's the difference in the work there?
Oh, yeah.
Um, sorry if I, I started with, if I started with jargon, um, this whole
thing, that was not what I meant to do.
Um, so the, um, clinical trials as a whole, uh, have phase one,
two, three, and sometimes four.
Um, so phase one and two are kind of early investigational studies where
you're looking at a new drug and you want to know, is it safe?
And do we have any hints that it's going to be effective, um, for a particular
disease or patient population and then later stage trials, um, or, uh, phase
stage, um, the, the three, four.
Um, so three is the, the classic randomized controlled trial where, where
you're saying we believe it's safe.
We believe it's effective.
Let's prove it.
Um, and then a four is usually a very large population wide.
Um, you kind of surveil the, the, you know, like lots of people
are taking statins these days.
You could run a phase four or something like a statin and make sure that it's
doing what it's supposed to do and that it's still safe and, and, um, larger
populations, sometimes even harder to reach, um, aspects of the population
that might not have enrolled in the classic phase three RCT.
Um, and then, uh, I was, I was referring to late stage, um, prostate cancer.
Um, prostate cancer is a disease in which, um, a lot of men are diagnosed
very early on, so an early stage of disease, um, and the, the kind of
actions you would take clinically for early stage prostate cancer are very
different than those you would take for late stage prostate cancer, which is
most often test the size to the bone or other places.
So we mostly operate in the, in the late stage, um, phase with, um, metastatic
disease, um, kind of low life expectancy and, and a real opportune time to
introduce new drugs that are helpful.
Thank you, Travis.
That's really helpful.
Sure.
Um, a few other questions in the chat coming in right now too.
And, um, I see Sam, you asked one and you put a little star for me to read it.
So a reminder, if you maybe are somewhere that's a bit loud or you want me to read
a question, feel free to put a star next to it in the chat too.
Um, but it was, how do you convince leadership in pharma companies that are
still hesitant or resistant toward remote work, that it's the future for data science?
Um, oh, that's like the million dollar question, I guess.
I, um, I suppose I've been fortunate not to be in that role.
I've had to make that, I've not been in a position where I've had
to make that argument myself.
Um, so I'm gonna, I'm gonna cast an, I don't know, into the, into the, um, into
the chat, uh, if anyone has suggestions, I'm, I'm really interested to hear them.
I read a lot of blogs and a lot of kind of like Twitter takes on this.
Um, and you know, like some of the hot takes are just sort of like, well, I'll
leave, you know, we'll, we'll leave and go get remote jobs that make more money.
And I mean, like, sure.
Um, but if you like the work you're doing and the place you're, you're working,
that's probably not the best solution.
Um, if you'd like to, you know, have a civil, productive conversation.
I.
Has anyone had to make this case or wanted?
Yeah, it'd be great if someone, yeah, someone has a suggestion or experience.
So in, um, in my experience, kind of in a previous role, um, we did have a group
that we're working together, um, in one location and in that sense, we, there
were certain individuals, this is pre pandemic, but certain individuals can,
in order to get work-life balance and right, and, you know, kind of get that in
place where they were having to commute a fair distance and take kids to school.
And so their, their work day was kind of difficult because of all of that.
They, they were trying to make the point that perhaps it would be more productive
for them to be at home certain days in the week so that they could then, you
know, get the kids off to school, do a full day's work, go back, pick them up.
And deal with everything.
The line manager at the time was kind of saying, well, because they wanted to
keep a cohesive group present in that location, if individuals were kind of
off working in remote locations, that was harder.
I can kind of understand that rationale just in terms of a group dynamic and
the kind of over the coffee pot, you know, round the kettle kind of discussions that
you occasionally have with colleagues, or, you know, you just turn around in your
chair and ask questions, that's much harder when everyone's remote.
So I kind of understood that point of view.
I think, well, just before the pandemic, I made the case to work remote and, you
know, my manager at the time was like, sure, you know, you're, you're on the
phone 90% of the time to folks in a remote location.
So why should it matter where you work?
And then the pandemic happened.
And as far as I'm, as far as I'm aware, I don't think that productivity has
markedly dropped within my organisation in the last two years.
So I think it's a much stronger lever now to say, hey, look, we can do this
remotely. Sure, there are some jobs that are more tricky, or certain circumstances
that are, you know, maybe you need to have closer interactions with colleagues.
Like if someone is brand new into the industry from graduating, you know, you
maybe want to have closer interactions with them to make sure that they're getting
it and they're not kind of, you know, veering off the path too much, let's, let's
call it that. But I honestly think that once you kind of get to a level of knowing
what you're doing in your job, I can't see why anyone could have a strong argument
that you have to be in the office.
Yeah, that's a great, I love that story in that you're pushing for pre-pandemic.
And I think for a lot of places, the pandemic just was the proof that said, look, we
really can do this. And like, you know, it's, it's, it's almost like the onus is now
on the, the in-office people like, well, show me how productivity increases when we're
in the office. Cause we've, we've, we've proved it like in, in the most dire of
circumstances, like in a time when we shouldn't have been productive.
I mean, that's the thing that the COVID enforced remote style of remote work is not
normal remote work.
That's not the way that it's supposed to be.
It's supposed to be more of a choice and a, you know, an intentional thought process than
rather than a, than an emergency knee-jerk reaction.
So that we did so many companies that so well remotely in, in the worst of situations means
that they'll do even better in normal times.
I mean, I, I have to say that I think communication is much more difficult.
You know, you have to be intentional about communication.
And also I think that it's easy for individuals to feel isolated, you know, and
that's, that's got a knock-on effect on mental health and everything else.
So, you know, I, there are pros and cons for sure.
But, you know, I think having those honest discussions about them is, is good first
step.
Yeah, totally agree.
I, something I meant to mention about remote work in general, I learned a lot from the
GitLab suite of resources.
They have so much out there.
I mean, they have a really good Coursera course.
I think it's called remote team management or something like this, which is very good.
And then they have a remote team handbook, which speaks to a lot of those topics.
You know, how do we, they always say the biggest, you know, challenge is communication
and, you know, document everything, but that's really hard.
And how do you carve time for it and make sure it's done?
And how do we balance just kind of connectedness in the long run?
Certainly things to think about and be intentional about.
Oh, I saw, yeah, that's the one, remote team management.
That's the right one.
Okay.
Yeah.
Thank you.
I know on this topic as well, Ethan, you just put a comment and question around like
staying connected to your coworkers.
Do you want to jump in and add some context?
Yeah.
I was just wondering kind of what Mike mentioned, I think about
people feeling more isolated.
I know I've felt much more isolated.
I've, I've worked now at two companies, neither of which was big on remote before
the pandemic and maybe haven't put a lot of thought into like doing remote well.
They've one of them, the one I'm with now hired me on fully
remote, which was wonderful.
Um, but, um, I definitely miss more of the interactions with coworkers in person.
Um, but they're all in Ohio.
I'm in Mississippi, so we can't like just meet up.
Um, and I'm just wondering what, uh, other people have seen that has worked
for helping you stay connected.
Do you do any of you all work?
Oh, go ahead.
Oh no, you go ahead.
I was wondering if any of you all work at the companies that have done the, the, um,
the remote, like if you're a fully remote company, something that's become, uh, hip
maybe these days is like the retreat sort of idea where you just go to like the
place in the country or somewhere else and just go, um, we haven't done that at
our org, we've, we've talked about it a couple of times, but I'm curious if
anyone's done that and if it was awesome.
Yeah.
I see a few hands raised.
If you have maybe suggestions or ideas for, for this question, um, harsh.
I saw your hand raised first.
Do you want to jump in?
Actually, I want to say like a remote job is good.
I completely agree with Mike also, because I have done remote
job also and work from office.
So both experience I'm having, when I was a fresher pass out from the
college, then the remote job was quite.
Very complicated.
I will be honest because I don't have any experience how the IT industry
work or what is the domain they are working.
So in sitting in isolated room and in the front of computer for nine hours,
it's like become frustrating.
Your language is telling you like, do this by that way.
Like that is quite fast for a beginner in the industry, but, uh, in the office
environment, the most important, I think I love is that interaction with the
people you are hanging out, you're working.
If you have a problem, then you are referring, Hey, how do you do that?
He will tell you it's so simple way, but in our remote, because at present
I'm working remote as well as office.
My team is like in three or four nation, Australia, UK, Abu Dhabi and India.
Like my 11 team members are divided into the four nation.
So we are handling the project of stock market domain.
So the interaction is quite good, but sometime it's quite complicated also
because, uh, first of all, the language barrier is not there, but pronunciation
barrier comes around how you're understanding your mate, like, because
you don't see their facial expression.
You are just hearing your voice.
You have never met them.
And like, so I would suggest that working from office is much and much
an interactive, funny, and like nine to six hours, my work time was like.
So fast that I can't believe that.
And nine to six hours in the front of laptop in my home is like a 24 hour job.
It looks like, but for a family, I do feel you on the, uh, yeah, I, I hear you
on, sometimes it's hard to know like someone's sense of humor or when you're
just like Slack messaging with them.
But, um, thank you so much, Sam, I see you had your hand raised
too, if you want to jump in.
Yeah.
Um, I actually, a couple of weeks ago, I got back from a retreat, um, with my
company, we're fully remote, we got about 40 to 50, um, employees and, um, it was
really fun, uh, there was a little bit of work, you know, sort of during the day.
But then, um, you know, like in the afternoon we like did a scavenger hunt
around the city and, um, or we did, uh, I mean, all sorts of just silly little
activities and they were like, you can go to this mall or you can go, you
know, to this museum or, or whatever.
There were just all sorts of fun activities.
And then in the evenings, of course, there were dinner and drinks and
everybody went out after the dinner and the drinks and had more drinks.
And so it was a, it was a very fun, a very fun time.
And it was really fun getting to see everybody.
Um, but unfortunately it was a COVID super spreader event, but I was
boosted, so I'm, I'm good, but yeah, it was fun.
I would, I would love to chat more about it offline if anybody's interested.
Yeah, that's really cool.
Sounds great.
Minus the COVID part.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
I saw, I saw someone actually mentioned something that I also, um, do from time
to time where there's this, um, you can co-work with your, you know, like in a,
in a zoom or any kind of, um, teams meeting even silently, um, especially
with the onboarding process, I find that's really helpful so that, that
the person or people know that I'm there and available, um, like I have things to
do, so, I mean, I'll just sometimes even turn off our camera and just like go on
mute and then, you know, if you want to like pop on and say, Oh, I got this thing.
I'm stuck.
I got a question.
It works really well.
You can block an hour or two with, with, um, certain colleagues
who do that from time to time.
It's kind of like working side by side.
That's a good idea.
Um, okay.
There's a few other questions that were on Slido anonymously that are in a different
topic and one was, um, does Python have as big of a place as R in clinical trials?
I've, I haven't seen it yet.
Um, I, I could be totally blindsided by something that I'm just not aware of.
Um, but I, I think the reason is that R was traditionally built and is more
maintained in the classical statistical space.
Um, and there's not too much NLAI, which of course is a, is a Python strong
point, um, going on in the traditional clinical trial world.
So, um, just the strength in terms of you're going to run a regression or a
survival analysis and you're going to get exactly what you're going to get.
You know, it's correct.
Um, I think that's sort of accepted as, as a more, as a truth, um, compared to,
to Python and I, and this is not a slight towards Python.
Um, like it just, I just think it's the different way that
these languages have evolved.
Thank you.
I'm trying to go through a few other questions I saw from earlier.
I think Javier, you asked the question around, um, like commenting in your code.
Would you want to jump in and pass that one?
Yeah, I, I don't know if I'm unique to this because now at, um, bloom reach
the company I'm working at now, you know, our team is much smaller.
So I, over the last few years, I don't know if it's COVID related or not, but
I have been putting, you know, a lot less comments in my code.
Um, I think part of that too, is like our teams have just sort of matured.
So there's less of a need to comment stuff that, you know, is like clearly
obvious what's going on, you know?
Um, do you have any advice for like when to draw the line of, I should comment
or put some pros in my code here or not?
Um, the, so I, I'm guilty of this.
Um, I've definitely written like some code, especially when I, so I, I started
the data science team, um, that, that I'm leading now at this org.
So when it, when, when it was initiated, it was just me, like writing a ton of
code and, um, I didn't always comment that well, which was not wise for future
me and certainly not wise for, um, other people that would be joining the team.
Um, what's, what's been helpful is, um, I work for example, with, um, Shannon
who's awesome at communicating with me.
Uh, this was hard to read.
Um, so I, like, I honestly lean on others to tell me what that line should be.
Um, it's something that I think it was Alison Hill might've mentioned
today or taught me about this, which is like a, almost like a feelings journal
for, for how you're experiencing a set of code, like when you open up the R
document, if you just kept like an informal side document, which is when I
saw this line, I felt, um, happy, um, because it was well commented or I felt
like what is going on, um, like those sorts of things, feedback from colleagues
when they're, you know, you do paired programming or code review is really,
really helpful to me to know, like something that just might be clear to me
because I've written the statement a million times is like not
super clear without a comment.
That, that helps.
Thanks.
Sure.
I like that.
Feelings journal as you're going through it.
Um, Brittany, I, I saw you had asked a question in the chat earlier as well.
Do you want to jump in?
Yeah, I think, um, for a lot of us who have had the more traditional in office
environment, um, and with remote work becoming more, um, popular, you kind of
get a grass is greener on the other side kind of feeling, and you're thinking
maybe I do want to go fully remote.
So I think I'd just love to ask the group, what are maybe some pros that we
should consider, but also some maybe downsides or cons that someone should
also consider before thinking about that switch from being maybe partially remote
or fully in office to being fully remote.
A quick take for me, um, would be a couple of the, I mean, the benefits to
me are such that I'm here.
Um, so I'm clearly a biased observer here, but, um, of course, some of the
challenges we've talked about are the communication and maybe potential
isolation.
I mean, that, that really is something that.
You, the, the team has to be so, so thoughtful about to make it work well
and make sure that everyone's still engaged and feels like they're part of
something that's meaningful and that everyone's growing.
Um, that's, that's something I really try to keep tabs on in the team that
everyone, you know, like, did you learn something this week or, you know, how
do you feel about your future and like next week and, and not, because it's,
it's very easy, I think in this potentially isolating environment to, to
just have, like be in the grind of like producing the thing, like, you know, Oh,
you did your tables this week.
Great.
Like let's move on and we'll do more tables next week or whatever the case
may be.
Um, just checking in about people, um, and, and making sure that, that they're
balanced and happy is, is something if it's possible to probe early on, like
what, if you can get a vibe, um, I'm sorry that there's not a more rigorous
thing to look for than that, but, um, that would be my two cents.
Thank you.
Um, Sam, I see you have your hand raised to add on to this too.
Yeah.
So I, when I first switched to remote work, I was working, um, for the federal
government and, um, I hated it at first, um, because, you know, I had this nice
little commute on the Metro and I would, you know, do out and go out to drinks
and everything afterwards, you know?
And so I would, so I hated, hated, hated working from home.
Um, but now I love it and I won't ever do a job that's not working from again.
I think my biggest piece of advice, if you are looking to switch to fully
remote work is to definitely get your, like a workspace, like a total, and
that's what you do in that space as you work, because when I first started
working, my workspace was also in my bedroom and that was just
like such a bad vibe generally.
Um, so yeah, definitely.
If you want to make the switch, make sure you have a dedicated, and it
doesn't have to be like a whole room.
Like I happen to have an office right now, but I think if, as long as you
have like a desk or something, that's like a dedicated workspace, um,
I think that's really important.
Totally endorse that one too.
Yeah.
Sometimes when the weather's bad, like I feel that when I work in my room, like
in the RV, which is, you can imagine it's actually pretty small, um, that, that
feels very crushing, um, like soul crushing.
So I have a tent, um, that I, that I work in when the weather's not great.
Um, and I have like a little space heater that I'll put in and things like that.
And even just that simple walk for my RV to the tent is like,
okay, I'm going to work now.
Um, and so, yeah, I completely agree.
The dedicated workspace is huge.
I agree as well.
I had to move my desk out of my bedroom.
That was just too much in one space.
Um, Eric, I see, Eric, you had a question earlier on commenting
code.
Do you want to jump in?
Yeah, definitely.
Um, so I, like others have been saying in the chat, thinking of future, you
is quite important when you're commenting on code and the like, but I'm one
effort I did earlier this year is it's not just about the code for a specific
project, it's how you're accessing certain environments or maybe using
reusable, you know, code across projects or just other kind of intangibles.
I'm just curious how your team is approaching, how you document and share
your learning about, you know, how you're accessing certain tools in your
infrastructure or how you're trying out new, you know, projects that you're
trying out new, you know, ways of doing analysis and how you're sharing that
learning across so that nobody's like trying to do it all themselves every
time, trying to avoid that syndrome.
Yeah, that's, that's such an awesome question.
And something that I, that I worried about, not on this role, but in my, in
my last work too, how do we create like a wiki that is just, suppose you landed
in like a data scientist role here tomorrow, like, how would you know?
Like what, where are the keys?
What are the, what are you, what are you doing?
And I, I, something I pursued in the past was like GitHub pages via
Netlify, so making just like a simple, like R Markdown site and, and putting
that together, the, the limitation that I found there was then the, the people
who can contribute knowledge to those pages are only those who know R Markdown.
And, and that's big because I want people who don't code to feel like they can
come and comment on our processes and, and, and share their knowledge as well.
So these days, as, as much as I'm reluctant to say it among the data
science crowd, we're just using like SharePoint, like, which is fine.
It's easy.
It's lightweight.
Like, I, you know, the, the, it's kind of already licensed through our org.
So it was free.
But other suggestions, I mean, any other thing that people are using there would
be, I'd love to learn about that as well.
What, what's in, what's a low barrier to entry Wikipedia
knowledge base kind of toolkit?
I, I haven't stumbled on my favorite.
I can tell you that what I did earlier this year is I did do an R Markdown
based site with blog down, but I found a theme where most of the
content is just Markdown itself.
It's not like I'm doing R specific Markdown syntax and I was able to tie
with GitHub action so that somebody could go on a page.
They would see a button that says edit this page.
If they see something wrong or I've seen improvement, it would take them
straight to GitHub in our org for that page.
I could just edit it on the spot and GitHub itself, and then put the poll
request, I merge it in, then there's a GitHub action that redeploys it.
Um, that's very cool.
Yeah, it took a lot of work to get there because infrastructure at big orgs is
always a complicated mess sometimes.
Once I got a little help from our IT group on setting up the deployment
piece, I'm much happier with this solution than what I was doing in the
past, which was in essence, scattered files on a shared Linux, like file
system space that nobody could index or find or anything like that.
So it's been helping future me at least.
I see.
There's a few comments in the chat of tools people are using too.
We recently moved over to Confluence, like very recently, but I still do find
myself like searching Slack to find helpful links and stuff too.
And I, it's just a habit of mine.
You find the experience with Confluence good?
Like I've, cause I know I tried, like I tried it and, and I felt like it was
hard, um, even as a developer, like it felt very developer friendly and less
like real people is, is that your experience or is it, has it improved?
I mean, that was years ago.
Well, when I say we just moved over, it was like a week ago, so really
sure yet, but I will let you know.
Cool.
Okay.
Um, I see Raha, you asked the question around code reviews too.
Do you want to jump in?
Yeah, sure.
So right now in my group, the only person coding is really me, but I'm going to
start with a, I'm hiring a postdoc and then we're going to bring on a bunch of
undergrads and I would like to, I would like some sort of mutually beneficial
relationship where I can give input on how their coach could be structured better.
But I also need to have them look at mine and all of the things I didn't
comment that I should have.
And I don't know what the best way to implement this would be also taking into
account that for some people, their code might be like, it's, they might
think of it as their property.
Like they don't want to give it away to another student who would
just recreate what they've done.
Um, so I want to protect them, but also make them better.
Yeah, that's a good question.
So this is, um, Garrick Todd.
I think I see Garrick, you're hey, you taught me about this.
Um, like pair programming strategies.
Um, something that I found is, it's hard for me is when someone says, can you
review my code and then it's like points me to a GitHub repo, and then I don't
know where to start and it feels like a lot instead, um, pair programming
strategies whereby maybe one that Garrick was teaching about is, um, a driver
passenger sort of setup where someone codes and someone else is kind of like
the passenger and saying, what are you thinking now?
Like, what are you doing next?
Um, and then you kind of iterate together through, through the code base in real
time as you develop it potentially.
So it's, it's lesser review like post-mortem, um, and more of a, like, how
do we, how do we think through and build?
And that's, and that's really good for, um, onboarding people too.
Um, but then that, that could also work for simple code review if it's already
done, um, just kind of like looking block by block, you know, like have maybe the,
the person who wrote the code could be the driver then, and then they go, okay,
here's the first thing I was going to do.
I opened this file and then I was going to load this data and here's my thought
process.
And I think it kind of, I think it really speeds up the, the workflow instead of
just like feeling lost when you land in a, in a big code base, um, which is
usually my experience.
Thank you.
I, I see a few, um, comments in the chat around pair programming too.
And Brittany, I see you just asked a follow up question there too,
if you want to jump in.
Yeah.
So I have the pleasure of being probably one of the very few, like handful, maybe
two handfuls of people on my like 80, 90 person team who uses R.
And so I noticed one of the challenges is if I wanted to do pair programming
with someone, um, a lot of people actually don't know the language.
So I don't know if it's just, you have to find someone else who knows it and try
to do it only with them, or if anybody has tips around what to do in that scenario.
That was actually how we stumbled on pair programming originally.
Um, Garrick and I was that we were trying to onboard people who did not know R.
Um, so it certainly can work there and you're right.
I mean, it kind of limits, like you sort of, in many cases need to be the driver
if the, if the person doesn't know any R whatsoever, but it can be valuable
for, for kind of, um, more entry-level tasks if, if that, the, you know, the
learner is then the driver and then, you know, make clear that we have all
the time in the world here, like, it's okay to not know what to do next.
And just, you know, like lean on me when you need it.
Um, that, that works too.
Oh, Garrick.
Hey, do you have, do you have other thoughts?
You've done this more than me.
So I feel like I'm just trying to channel you.
Yeah.
Awesome.
I mean, just talk about pair programming.
I will appear.
This is awesome.
Yeah.
I, um, I love it.
I think one of the, one of my favorite parts about pair programming and
especially like if you have someone who's newer to a code base or newer
to programming, be the driver.
So they're the ones actually like typing and moving the mouse and everything.
Um, and then the person who knows more is the person, uh, I don't
know what the right words are.
So maybe driver and pass, but like, so there's like a backseat driver
is the person who knows more.
And they're kind of saying like, okay, now, you know, go over here,
go into this file, click this thing.
And, um, and what I found is like, it really forces you to slow down and
explain at a level that is, that is, that matches the person who is, um,
who's learning and like, it can be really easy to just sort of like, you
know, like be really easy to just sort of like brain dump to be like, Hey,
let's have a meeting and like, here's how everything works.
And like, you don't realize it's like, it's too much you're overloading.
It's, it's going too quickly.
You know, they don't have the right context, et cetera.
But, um, but actually sort of moving through the code together and doing
smaller tasks, like you realize you can, you get a sense for, you know,
what's the right pace, um, by doing that.
And that's one of my, my favorite parts of it.
Awesome.
Thank you.
Um, I see Zach, you had some thoughts on this too, if you want to jump in.
Or I can read, I can read yours.
Happy to, um, I was going to throw on the video.
Um, but, uh, I guess, uh, I found it that we, we schedule some time for basically
everyone to be like the driver, um, and then have people kind of ask clarifying
questions or, you know, how did you approach this?
Um, and I always think, uh, yeah, it's just kind of a fun activity.
Um, I would agree with, uh, Lizzie that it's, it just like brings a different
perspective to the way that you approach code.
Um, yeah, cool.
That's great.
Thank you.
Any other thoughts on this topic before I shift gears?
And I realize an hour is going by very quickly.
There was a great question on Slido, um, as synonymously that was when trying to
start a data science department in a medium company, what would you say are
some points to take into account?
Like also, are there any guidelines or books to check out?
Um, I always recommend Emily Robinson and Jacqueline Nolas's book, um,
becoming a data scientist.
Is that what it's called?
Becoming a data scientist.
Um, uh, from Manning Publishing.
It's awesome.
Awesome.
Um, I read that when I wasn't looking for a job and I wasn't even building a
car, I just devoured it because it was just so good.
Um, and then I find that I often return to it as I do new things.
When I look for new roles, when I build a department, um, there's lots of good
examples in there about big orgs, small orgs, what to expect.
I, I do recall that there is a particular section in there where they, they
interview someone who, um, has started a, a, a bill of credit in data science.
Thanks.
Um, uh, who has started, uh, uh, a data science division and an existing
kind of smallish, medium sized org.
Um, and I would point to that, that that'll probably cover it more
completely than I could, than I could try to here.
Um, yeah, I don't know if, yeah, that I'll probably leave it at that.
Um, I don't want to like say something that is not as good as the book.
You should just go read the book.
I will say, I need to go read that book too, because it is one of the most
recommended resources at this hangout.
It's so good.
Yeah.
Awesome.
And I know a few people are Eric shared the podcast too, which is really great as well.
Oh yeah, for sure.
Awesome.
I want to make sure I haven't missed any questions through the chat.
Sometimes I know it's hard when there's a lot of comments, but I love all the
comments and conversation that happens in the chat, feels like a lot of fun.
Feel free to raise your hand if you had asked the question earlier
and I unfortunately missed it.
Can I unmute and ask a question?
Yeah.
Um, I think I asked a question that several other people also like chimed
in and asked a different version of, which was, you know, talking about your
experience of being the only, or the first data scientist and growing a team from there.
I know that I have been avoiding roles where someone's like, you're, you would
be the only data scientist and, you know, that's a scary thing to think
about how to do approach that.
Yeah.
Um, in hindsight, I, you know, I kind of like won the lottery with
regards to the org that I'm in.
Um, so the CEO who I report to is so supportive of like, we know data
sciences is our need in our next direction.
And so, um, I was kind of given just like a lot of green room to run.
If you're toying with the idea, I would suggest making sure that's that, that
that's the case, um, in larger orgs where maybe you don't have as close contact
with, you know, Leaders, uh, leadership that would make executive decisions
around how much to invest, um, whether it's in people or in tooling, sometimes
the people actually most often are always the people are more important than the
tooling, um, and data scientists aren't cheap.
So making sure that if you, if you're going to build a data science team,
that, that everybody's like full, you know, going into it, eyes wide open,
that this is an investment and it's absolutely going to return the value.
Um, but, but brace yourself.
Um, so, I mean, I, that's just, just getting, making sure the buy-in is
already there rather than I think going into it and thinking that we're, we're
going to change the philosophy here.
I think, I think that's a much, much harder thing to do.
Maybe they're just, they're kind of happy enough with, with like the, the
kind of Excel kingdom, and maybe they want to toy with the idea of like, let's
tinker with some data science and like everybody's got a data scientist these
days, let's get one of those that, that might be kind of a warning signal.
Um, yeah.
Awesome.
I appreciate it.
Sure.
I love all the questions and energy this week.
I see Eric, you just said that you're going to be doing a lot of
this week.
I see Eric, you just asked a question in the chat too.
You want to jump in?
Yeah.
Um, so going back to kind of your work in the clinical space with R, I'm just
curious from your perspective, Travis, what are some of the kind of trends you're
seeing and how R is being used and some more, you might say, innovative work in
this space, I'm certainly seeing some, I'd love to hear your perspective on areas
that you think are becoming quite hot in this, in this space for doing some outside
the box ideas or more innovative analyses.
I love, so yeah, that's an awesome question.
And I love the, um, kind of back to basics trend across all of data science.
So like the SQL first tools being the new hotness that is actually the old
hotness, um, and, uh, I think R the way, you know, tidyverse and dplyr things
like data manipulation and those environments are written is so readable.
And, um, I think that the move away from things like SAS, I'm
saying SAS isn't readable.
It's, it's very readable for some people.
Um, but, but I think I'll go ahead and, you know, like put in my
opinion that dplyr is more readable.
And I think it's, and Garrick is often, we've often pondered this together.
We'll go, I wonder what, what would be the error rate of someone's just written
strict SAS, like doing the same task.
Someone who's very fluent in SAS, someone who's very fluent in dplyr writing
and code reviewing these two things.
Um, how, how error prone, like what would the error rate be in both
scenarios, like some sort of AB tests with these two sorts of languages.
Um, and, and again, I'm not trying to get into a language war here.
It's, it's not really about that, but I think there are licensing advantages
to moving away from SAS and if we get readability advantages, less error
prone code, um, more translation into SQL based variations where we can
leverage tools like dbt, which I know was on a previous hangout.
There was a little bit discussion about that, um, for better data
documentation, better data cataloging.
Um, I think we'll understand our sources better.
And in the end for us in life sciences, that's going to translate to better
patient impacts because we're producing higher quality reports on higher quality
data, um, we've definitely seen with our markdown, we produce things for
safety monitoring boards where they go, oh my goodness, like you just sent us
this HTML document or this PDF thing that is so elegantly readable, um, that
in the past when I've received one from some other, you know, software
vendor or whatever the case may be.
It was very hard for me to see that I need to be worried about this particular
patient or this particular outcome in these cohorts, because it's just kind
of masked a bunch of like ASCII nastiness.
Um, but then now that we can produce really elegant R markdown sort of
documents or, um, quarto as it may be these days, I think we're going to see
a lot of good impacts in the life sciences space.
So that's, that's what I'm thinking about.
It's kind of like no ML, no AI, no big data.
It's just regular old counting things and making good looking tables and figures.
Um, I think we're getting really good at that.
Yeah.
I couldn't agree more on the interactive results that we can present that.
Shiny, of course, is a part of that, but also like you said, we can do our
markdown, static HTML, but with interactive elements, and I think it's
just getting some of these legacy processes to be aware that there is this
new world out there where I don't have to give you a hundred page RTF output.
I can give you something with the DT table and plotly to quickly drill
down on those patients and maybe a safety physician wants to look at.
So really enjoy those insights there.
Cool.
I know we're a minute over the top of the hour.
Do you have a few more minutes you have to run?
I could, I think I have to run.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
Oh yeah.
No, I do.
I know my next week starts at five after I have four minutes to give.
I'm quite happy to give them.
Okay.
Awesome.
Um, there was one, um, Slido question that just came in was
thank you so much for doing this.
What are your actual practices for making code handoffs as painless as possible?
Um, I, that's an iterative answer.
I think learning, like when I handed off something last time, how awful
was the experience for the person who received my code?
Um, I always try to ask that question and, um, I always get an
answer that there was a pain point.
So like, it's not something I can solve once and for all, but, but I'm
definitely still learning, um, these days, like when I wrote that map
function, it was real ugly and it was not clear what it was doing.
Um, something like that.
So just, just asking people who see your code, how they felt the feelings journal.
I love this idea of feelings journals of reading code.
Yeah.
Love that.
Um, there is a conversation happening now around like DevOps and
data engineering in the chat.
And I don't want to cut that short.
So I want to let you know, Travis, it's okay for you to go to your meeting.
So I just want to say thank you so much for, for joining us and
sharing your experience.
This has been awesome.
Of course.
Yeah.
I'd love to hang out for three minutes and see what the data
engine or the analytics engine.
Are there analytics engineering fans on here?
Is that, is that a thing?
Um, it's our community thus far.
Awesome.
And, uh, yeah, and Travis, while we're talking about that, I'm sure people
would love to know how to stay in touch with you too, if Twitter's best or
LinkedIn, you want to share that in the chat?
Oh, sure.
Thanks.
Yeah, I'll do that.
Um, it's my, well, my username is Travis Gerke at both.
Um, I'll try to find one and drop it in here so you can find me there.
Yeah, probably Twitter.
I check more often, but it feels like the future of Twitter is
uncertain these days, so who knows?
Um, I try to hedge my bets with LinkedIn, so here's my Twitter.
Um, you can find me there.
Um, yeah.
And honestly, like I try to, on LinkedIn, I do this maybe more than on Twitter.
I update my location fairly often.
And sometimes I've, I've seen people on my travels, um, like
people in our communities.
Like recently we were in Missoula and we saw like Mara, like, I don't know.
If anyone, um, who's, who's around, if you're like, oh, you're in my
neighborhood, like hit me up and maybe, I don't know, like see real people in
real life and not be so isolated.
So that's cool.
That's great.
Um, I see Robert who asked the question or started off the
conversation and chat had to drop.
But the, the point was starting data science before DevOps and data
engineering is really difficult because it puts the pressure on a data science
team to take some of these things on.
And I know Libby said, you'd love to chat more about this too.
And Javier, you had some thoughts.
So feel free to jump in too.
Well, we just, at least on my end, we just implemented, uh, our studio team,
which feels like a huge win for us.
But we have a fairly small, you know, group of professionals that I would classify
as having, you know, data engineering skills or like the know-how.
So I've had to get my hands dirty in a lot of different ways that I wasn't
anticipating and I mean, it's been good for growth because I'm way more
comfortable in Linux and like, you know, I, it sounds embarrassing, but setting
up, you know, ODBC connections, setting up drivers, like things that I didn't
think I'd have to get involved with.
I'm suddenly doing, um, and it's been, you know, it's been rewarding, but there
are challenges because I thought, you know, I'd come into this new company
and like, you know, week two, I'd be crunching out and deploying apps or,
you know, RMD reports and it just hasn't gone that way.
I'm, I'm still very far from even productionizing like ML or AI, um, in a
meaningful way, so, you know, there it's, it, there's a lot of baby steps that I
think, you know, you, you have to prepare yourself for if you're, if.
I just responded in the chat.
Um, I have to jump off, but, but yeah, I totally agree.
And I don't have a good solution, but I love that you made the comment.
I hope you all solve it and let me know next time I join.
Thanks again, Travis.
I know Javier just froze, I thought it was me, oh, you're back, you're back.
No clue where I left off, but needless to say, um, yeah, I just think there's a
lot of baby steps you need to take, like to set up a proper analytics engineering
shop or data science shop, whatever you want to call it.
That's exactly where you left off.
So that was perfect.
So we heard, we heard your whole point too.
Thank you.
Um, I know it's been super helpful.
Your team is amazing.
Like Tatsu, your software engineers.
I mean, these people have really gone out of their way to help us troubleshoot
you know, weird nuances.
So thank you.
That's awesome to hear.
Thank you, Javier.
Um, I know there were a few other comments on this in the chat too.
So feel free to raise your hand if you want to jump in or just unmute yourself.
I'd put a comment about how in my previous experience, I, um, took it upon
myself to prototype infrastructure for our studio and shiny server and my org.
And it definitely paid off where now we have obviously the enterprise products,
but it opened people's eyes and this is many years ago, like way, way long
ago when for artists studio first came out.
Um, and I, Ethan was asking how did I get started?
How did I get tasked with that?
I literally took it upon myself.
I was one of those where I'm maybe I'm too much of a renegade in some areas of
thought, but I saw the potential of what art could bring in, in our org.
And it had been used a little bit before, but only by a handful of people.
And I thought these interfaces were enabling technology to those that would
be interested in pursuing this.
So with my Linux kind of side hobby of learning about Linux and doing that at
home and running that server on my own home server here, I was able to get a
virtual machine from our Linux team.
They just said, have at it.
Just don't break anything like, yeah, sure.
I won't break anything.
And, um, sure enough, it took off.
So just had to get people buying into giving me the opportunity.
And once I had the opportunity, it wasn't part of my day job by any means.
Like I wasn't hired to do Linux administration, but I knew enough that if
I could carve out a little bit of time here and there, I could at least get this
started and now I have great help with it.
It's not on me anymore, but it does take somebody to take that initiative and you
kind of have to make time for it.
And most of these big orgs, I would say, but once you do it, the
payoffs are tremendous, I think.
So again, it helped that I'm a Linux geek at heart.
So it was, um, kind of in my wheelhouse, but it's much easier now to learn about
the skills you need to do this than it was back in my day to use the cliche.
Thanks so much, Eric.
Brittany, I see you said you were an engineering analyst out of necessity,
not your own choice, but what has been helpful for you and in moving towards that?
Yeah, I think just, um, learning to collaborate even across roles.
I think a lot of what I had to do was collaborating with people who are what
you'd call traditionally data engineers.
Um, but also just reaching out even beyond my company.
Um, I think also realizing that you might find yourself in this situation,
even if you're in a larger company.
Like I mentioned earlier, my team has 90 analysts alone, and I still found
myself in the realm of like having to figure out getting data and cleaning
it up and actual processes for that.
So I think just like honestly leaning into those opportunities is also
something I would highly recommend.
I didn't realize I'd like it until I started doing it.
So thank you.
I, I think we have covered all the questions.
I, if there are certain things that we missed, feel free
to raise your hand here too.
I know Travis is gone, but all of you are leaders here as well and are
qualified to answer some of these questions.
I know we covered a ton of stuff there.
Thank you all so much for, for joining today and for all the amazing questions
too, hopefully we'll see you all back next week, um, have a great rest of the day.
Everybody.